National Park
Biscayne
Miami, Key Biscayne & Homestead, FL
9700 SW 328th Street, Sir Lancelot Jones Way, Homestead, FL 33033
Year: 1968

Within sight of downtown Miami, yet worlds away, Biscayne protects a rare combination of aquamarine waters, emerald islands, and fish-bejeweled coral reefs. Here too is evidence of 10,000 years of human history, from pirates and shipwrecks to pineapple farmers and presidents. Outdoors enthusiasts can boat, snorkel, camp, watch wildlife…or simply relax in a rocking chair gazing out over the bay.


Things To Do

Park wonders attract South Florida residents as well as visitors from around the world. Recreational opportunities include; fishing, boating, diving, snorkeling, paddling, hiking, camping, wildlife watching, cultural exploration and the rare opportunity to experience largely undeveloped Florida Keys. Boat tours, ranger programs, art exhibits, special events and more. The park offers a variety of ways to help you get to know and enjoy its rare combination of aquamarine waters, emerald islands and vibrant coral reefs.


Maritime Heritage Trail

Biscayne National Park's Maritime Heritage Trail offers an exciting opportunity to explore the remains of some of the park's many shipwrecks. Six wrecks, spanning nearly a century and a wide variety of sizes and vessel types, have been mapped, brochures have been produced and mooring buoys have been installed. The newest addition to the trail is the Fowey Rocks Lighthouse. Snorkeling is great around the base of the light, but the structure itself is not open to the public.

Access to the sites on the trail is by boat only. Erl King, Alicia and Lugano are best suited to SCUBA divers, while the other sites can easily be enjoyed while snorkeling. Mandalay in particular offers an unparalleled opportunity for snorkelers to experience a shipwreck in a beautiful natural setting.


Fishing and Lobstering

With mangrove shorelines, seagrass meadows, sand flats, reefs and shipwrecks, the park offers diverse fishing experiences. Fishing and other harvesting activities are largely governed by state law. The park works with the State of Florida to promote regulations and ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources.

Florida saltwater fishing and lobster regulations

The taking of lobster is prohibited in the Biscayne Bay/Card Sound Lobster Sanctuary including all natural, artificial and tidal creeks between the islands and along the mainland. Legally taken lobsters may be transported through the sanctuary.

It is prohibited to collect ornamental aquarium species, plants and animals, or harvest giant land crabs in the park. Prohibited species include; goliath and Nassau grouper, queen conch, sawfish, sea turtles, stony and fire corals, sea fans, longspine sea urchins and numerous species of sharks. For the full list, see Florida saltwater fishing regulations.
