National Monument
Castillo de San Marcos
St. Augustine, FL
Year: 1924

1 South Castillo Drive
Saint Augustine, FL 32084


A monument not only of stone and mortar but of human determination and endurance, the Castillo de San Marcos symbolizes the clash between cultures which ultimately resulted in our uniquely unified nation. Still resonant with the struggles of an earlier time, these original walls provide tangible evidence of America’s grim but remarkable history.


Architecture & Construction

The Castillo de San Marcos is unique in North American architecture. As the only extant 17th century military construction in the country and the oldest masonry fortress in the United States it is a prime example of the "bastion system" of fortification, the culmination of hundreds of years of military defense engineering.

It is also unique for the material used in its construction. The Castillo is one of only two fortifications in the world built out of a semi-rare form of limestone called coquina (The other is Fort Matanzas National Monument 14 miles south)

The fortress itself is both a product of and evidence to the multitude of forces both political and technological that created the competition for empire during the colonial era. But above all the Castillo is an enduring legacy of the craftsmanship and skill of the engineers, artisans and labourers who built it.

Declared a National Monument

During the fall of 1924, President Calvin Coolidge declared Castillo de San Marcos (then known as Fort Marion) under the authority of the 1906 Antiquities Act, to be a national monument. Forts Matanzas, Pulaski, Wood, and Castle Pinckney were included in the same signing. Later on, President Franklin D. Roosevelt sought a variety of ways to stimulated the American economy during his first term in office. Among his many ideas was the decision to streamline the responsibilities of the National Park Service (NPS). Fort Marion and many other national monuments were transferred to the NPS on August 10, 1933. In 1942 Congress restored the name Castillo de San Marcos to commemorate the fort's Spanish heritage.
The 1702 Siege

In November of 1702, English forces from South Carolina, lead by Governor James Moore, launched an attack against St. Augustine. This attack takes place just 7 years after the completion of Castillo de San Marcos, and it would be its first major trial by fire.

The 1740 Siege

After recovering from the 1702 siege, St. Augustine’s defences were strengthened, but economic issues left the city wanting for supplies. In June of 1740, British Governor James Oglethorpe attempts to exploit the city’s weaknesses. The resulting siege lasted nearly a month, and Castillo de San Marcos did it’s job by protecting the city, and keeping it in Spanish control.
