Fort Caroline is located in Jacksonville, Florida about 14 miles northeast of downtown. The Theodore Roosevelt Area is associated with Fort Caroline.

From I-95 north of Jacksonville: Traveling from the north via Interstate 95 exit at the I-295 East Beltway. I-295 crosses the St. Johns River via the Napoleon Bonaparte Broward bridge at Dames Point. Exit at Monument Road, follow the brown signs to the left, and travel to Fort Caroline Road. Turn right, and follow Fort Caroline Road as it curves to the left at the bottom of the hill. The entrance to the Fort Caroline National Memorial will be ahead, on your left.

From I-95 south of Jacksonville: Traveling up the east coast of Florida from the south via Interstate 95, leave I-95 at I-295 East Beltway. Follow I-295 to Monument Road. Exit at Monument Road, follow the brown signs to the right, and travel to Fort Caroline Road. Turn right, and follow Fort Caroline Road as it curves to the left at the bottom of the hill. The entrance to the Fort Caroline National Memorial will be ahead, on your left.

From A1A from Jacksonville Beaches: From Florida Route A1A and the Jacksonville area beaches, travel north on A1A to Wonderwood, turn left on Wonderwood, go straight. Take Wonderwood to the light at Mt Pleasant Road (3rd Traffic Light), then turn right at the light at Mount Pleasant Road. Continue on Mt. Pleasant Road until you see brown sign for Fort Caroline. Take right onto Fort Caroline Road; continue until you see the entrance to Fort Caroline National Memorial on your left. These directions also apply for those traveling south on A1A via the St. Johns River ferry. Turn right at the light at Wonderwood, then follow the directions above from Mt. Pleasant Road.

From A1A from Amelia Island: Take AIA south. A1A becomes Heckscher Drive (FL 105) at the St. Johns River Ferry Landing. At this point you have two options: 1. Continue on Heckscher Drive until you reach I-295. Take I-295 south. Exit at Monument Road and turn left. Follow signs. At the light at Fort Caroline Road, turn right. Follow brown signs. 2. Take St. Johns River Ferry (A1A) to south side of river. Follow A1A to Wonderwood Expressway, turn right. At Mt. Pleasant Road, turn right. Continue on Mt. Pleasant Road until you see brown sign for Fort Caroline.

From Downtown Jacksonville: From Downtown Jacksonville, take Union Street to the Mathews Bridge to the Arlington Expressway to the flyover exit for the Southside Connector. Take the connector to Merrill Road and turn right. Merrill Road becomes Fort Caroline Road in approximately 1/2 mile. Continue on Fort Caroline Road, passing through the stoplight at the intersection of Fort Caroline Road and Monument Road. The next left turn is signed for Fort Caroline National Memorial.

Transportation Options: Jacksonville International Airport is northwest of the park. Jacksonville is served by Amtrak and by Greyhound Bus lines. Personal or rental vehicles are required to reach the park. Docking facilities, able to accommodate up to a 25 foot boat, are available to visitors wishing to arrive by personal watercraft. Personal watercraft can be tied up to dock for up to 59 minutes.

Feel free to call the park for further information or directions: 904.641.7155.

